Devious Debugging Tool
======================

[DDT][ddt] is a way to add debugging to your Javascript code that can be monitored
at will by any developer. It acts as a proxy for the standard browser console.

The goal of DDT is make it possible to debug specific parts of Javascript without
having to commit (and later remove!) `console.log` statements from production
source code. The developer is able to simply monitor for messages from specific
components when debugging is required.

Example
=======

There is a custom upload tool that keeps sending strange filenames and a developer
is tasked with debugging the uploader to see where the error is. One option would
be to add a debugging statement like this:

```js
if (window.developer_mode) {
    console.log('Uploader was given this filename:', filename);
}
```

This is fine, but another developer is working on phone number validation and wants
to debug the country changes. So she adds a similar statement:

```js
if (window.developer_mode) {
    console.log('Country changed to ', country, ' with phone format ', phone_format);
}
```

Now both developers are seeing both debugging statements. Either the developers have
to remove these statements when their task is complete, or with enough time, the
browser console will be so cluttered with messages that it becomes useless.

DDT makes this easier by adding a **namespace** all console calls as the first argument:

```js
ddt.log('Uploader', 'Filename changed to:', filename);
```

*Note that namespaces are not case sensitive. The namespace from the message call
is always displayed. All other operations normalize the namespace to lowercase.*

There are just two changes here: using `ddt.log` instead of `console.log` and making
the first argument the namespace. Once the namespace is applied, any developer can
choose to **watch** that namespace for messages by calling DDT from the console:

```js
> ddt.watch('uploader');
true
```

This can be verified by using the **watching** command:

```js
> ddt.watching();
["uploader"]
```

Now every time a message in the "Uploader" namespace is sent, it will be displayed
to this developer in the console:

```
[Uploader] Filename changed to: "pic01.jpg"
```

When the developer is done working on the uploader, he simply does an **unwatch**:

```js
ddt.unwatch('uploader');
```

The same process can be used by creating a "PhoneDebug" namespace, or any other
name that a developer chooses.

Also note that internal debugging is done using the "DDT" namespace, which can be
monitored at any time:

```js
> ddt.watch('ddt');
true
```

Usage
=====

The console proxies that DDT supports are: `log`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, and `trace`.
All of these, except for trace, are direct proxies to the equivalent `console` command.
The `trace` command will execute a log call followed by a trace call.

When executed on a page with iframes, DDT will attempt to use [postMessage][postmessage]
to sync the current watching list between frames. When executed inside an iframe, the
sync will also travel outwards to parent windows. *This feature is only available when
used with [jQuery][jquery].*

DDT is also designed to sync your watching preferences between multiple domains by
using cross-domain cookies generated by requesting an image URL from each of the
separate domains.


**TODO:** Provide example of this implemented with PHP in the `examples/` directory.

Licenses
========

DDT was created by [deviantART][da]. Please check the [LICENSES.txt][licenses] file
for full details on the licensing.

[da]: http://www.deviantart.com/
[ddt]: http://github.com/deviantart/ddt/
[licenses]: https://github.com/deviantART/ddt/blob/master/LICENSES.txt
[postmessage]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window.postMessage
[jquery]: http://jquery.com/
